---
title: Scenarios
---

Scenarios:
Scenario 1: Analyzing Port Congestion Trends for Policy Recommendations

Persona:Mariana Costa (Data Scientist)

Description:
Mariana has been tasked with advising a government agency on how to
reduce congestion at a Port. She accesses the Open Data Portal to download
historical data on vessel traffic, cargo processing times, and port delays. She
identifies a pattern: congestion peaks correlate with inefficient cargo unloading
times during specific shifts, so she prepares a report recommending optimized
shift schedules and automation improvements.

Steps:
1- Mariana logs into the Open Data Portal.
2- Navigate through the dashboard to the page that contains the various
datasets available.
3- Select the data for the port she wants.
4- Select which elements of the dataset she needs.
5- Filter the data to the desired timeframe.
6- Press the download Button and choose the format of the data.

Scenario 2: Assessing Data Quality and Provenance Before a Study

Persona:Mariana Costa (Data Scientist)

Description:
Before publishing a research paper on maritime supply chain
disruptions, Mariana needs to verify the quality of the data she is using. She
uses the Open Data Portal’s metadata inspection tool to review the history of a
dataset containing cargo arrival predictions. She notices that some data points
were generated by an ML model rather than reported by human operators. To
assess its reliability, she filters out ML-generated records and runs an
independent statistical analysis then she documents her findings in the
research paper.

Steps:
1- Mariana logs into the Open Data Portal.
2- Navigate through the dashboard to the page that does analytics of
the datasets available.
3- Use the data provenance feature to identify which data-points are ML
Generated.
4- Select the filter to not show the ML generated data-points.
5- Review the analyses provided.

Scenario 3: Ensuring Data Security and Quality in the Open Data Portal

Persona:Carlos Nogueira (DataBase Engineer)

Description:
Carlos Nogueira, the IT Administrator, receives a notification that a new
dataset has been uploaded by a data provider. Before making it available to
users, he must ensure that the data meets security, quality, and provenance
standards. His goal is to validate the data's accuracy and check for
inconsistencies and flag data points that have them .
Steps:
1- Carlos logs into the Open Data Portal’s admin panel and sees a
notification about a new dataset.
2- Opens the dataset and check its completeness.
3- Identifies that a data-point has a problem in one of the elements.
4- Uses the metadata inspection tool to verify the source of the data.
5- Flags the data to not be used in statistics until the problem is
resolved.
Depois vai ser outro user storie a resolver este problema.
Também não sei se vamos ter isto necessariamente ou se só vai acontecer o
cenário 4

Scenario 4: Uploading Data for Open Data Portal

Persona:João Silva (Data Provider)

Description:
João Silva, the Data Manager at the Port of Sines, has just collected
new maritime cargo arrival data that needs to be uploaded to the Open Data
Portal. He is responsible for ensuring that the data is accurate, complete, and
properly documented. He passes the data through the ML and data
provenance to properly mark the data with metadata.

Steps
1- João collects the latest maritime cargo data
2- Utilises a program to apply the ML model to complete empty data
fields.
3- Passes the data through the metadata tool to document the origin of
the data.
4- Accesses the Open Data Portal’s.
5- Navigates to the upload data page.
6- Uploads the data.
